>> Brian Holt: There was a question before
the break about this particular option
thing right here like it's being
condensed into one self-closing tag.
Why are we doing that?
Can we do something else?
So what I wanted here is I wanted
to have basically an option
if I was gonna write it in just
normal HTML it would look like this,
value= Blank with no string here,
empty string inside of there so
that if you go over here you can
see that it's empty with animal.
This represents searching for
all animals, right?
So you could totally put in
here All Animals, I guess.
>> Brian Holt: And
this would work just as well.
>> Brian Holt: Then come back,
my, nope this is not working.
Npm run dev.
>> Brian Holt: So now,
if I refresh this again,
you'll see here it says all animals,
or I could, so I can search for
all animals, and that would be fine as
well, but I wasn't doing that, I was just
making it an empty string, which then
Prettier collapses into one option.
So that hopefully addresses that.
Any other questions before I move on?
>> off screen male: I have a question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah?
>> off screen male: I was looking at this,
on line 41 Capital animals that came from
the import statement of both
map is an array function?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm
>> off screen male: How do you make
that show?
>> Brian Holt: This is an array.
>> off screen male: That's
already an array?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
So I mean this is, in fact I can look
at it here, it's an array of strings.
That comes from this module.
This module, I just know,
exports an array of strings.
>> off screen male: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
that dot map works on any array.
>> Brian Holt: Good question,
other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> off screen male: Did you have
to do a lot of doc block or
in line documentation in the module
finder client in order for
this to pre know so
many things like it's an array of strings.
>> Brian Holt: It's type script.
>> off screen male: Like did you,
[CROSSTALK] that, Okay, great.
>> Brian Holt: It's type script.
Yeah, if you export
typescript definitions,
VS code just inherently
knows how to read that.
>> Brian Holt: Makes it really easy.
So yeah,
I think I mentioned this yesterday.
VS code is, despite the fact that
we're not using typescript anywhere,
it's actually running typescript behind
the scenes on your code so that it's
understanding you code and giving you
suggestions and things like that.
>> Brian Holt: So the same thing here
if I was trying to say React.whatever.
So you can see here that it has all
of these things coming in from React.
The way that it's doing that is React
is not written in typescript, but
it has typescript definitions written for
it.
And it's just understanding those and
giving you access to that.
>> Brian Holt: By the way, VS Code not's
the only editor that does this I just
think it does this really well.
Particularly because both vs code and
typescript are written at Microsoft and
those two teams sit next to each other.
There's a lot of synergy there.
But we'll get to that later,
we'll write typescript later.
Okay, so I'll leave this up for
a second, but let's go ahead.
This concludes the section.
If you're fallen behind here,
there's a commit here, so
feel free to come up and speak with that.
>> off screen male: For bigger projects,
do you ever use libraries like redux forum
or how do you manage large forums
with lots of complex state.
>> Brian Holt: Personally, again I feel
like I'm a professional form developer
at this point, I don't because I
think this is pretty easy to do.
I really think the mechanics
of storing state with forms,
with React, is pretty elegant.
And I don't really see typically
the need for a library on top of that.
People can disagree with me, and
they might be able to go faster than me,
but when I have to go maintain it later
and I have to make minor changes,
it's really easy cuz the code's
already all written.
So I personally don't but that isn't to
say,
>> Brian Holt: I personally don't but
that isn't to say that there isn't
a good reason that you could do that.
>> off screen male: With inputs and events
or just events in general, can you ever,
how do you pass some
extra data along with it.
For instance you have two of the same
handlers but you want them pass a key.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> off screen male: Or an ID or
something like that.
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
Let's talk about that.
We actually already did it.
We did it with the carousel.
>> Brian Holt: If you look down
here I put the data index on here.
So this is actually gonna be
passed in through the data set
here in the handle index click.
This is again in the carousel
component that we built when we were
choosing which photo, right.
So here each one of these images is
getting an event listener attached to it.
And then, we're just pulling
out the dataset.index, right?
>> Brian Holt: So that's how you
would do that, you use data,
right which is really fast and
simple to do.
On a separate note,
something worth mentioning is typically
you'd be worried about the performance
implication of attaching a bunch
of event listeners here, right?
If you're,
if I'm thinking back to my jQuery days and
this is something I'd be worried about.
But keep in mind that, you're actually
not attaching real event listeners here.
React has one form listed at
the top level of the components.
So you're not actually attaching real
event listeners, and so there's no
performance overhead to having a bunch of
them here, or at least very, very little.
So you also don't need
to worry about that.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, go ahead.
>> off screen male: I noticed that
a couple different modules now,
we have the same sort of
import PF from pet finder,
give it the credentials again and so on.
Is that something that react wants you to
sort of redo in each of the modules or
on a larger project would you abstract
out this moment when we're getting
pet finders initialized into sort of
another module that we would then
just instead of that sheet and
keep pulling it all over the place.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, this has
nothing to do with React whatsoever,
this would be the same in any
library that you're dealing with,
this is cuz I hurried and
wrote this module myself.
This is actually,
>> Brian Holt: So
this is technically actually a singleton.
I don't actually have to do this.
I just have to do it once.
It actually stores those keys and
secrets internally and
then this would just give you
the petinder client right here.
But rather than explain it,
I just show people every single time so
you can see what it looks like.
>> Brian Holt: Yes, so it's not,
there's perhaps better ways of structuring
the module but
it really has nothing to do with react,
it's just the way this
job has been moduled to.
>> off screen male: [CROSSTALK] Say
a lot of people have a object and
they pull the API off
the config object that's
already configured with API keys or
whatever.
[CROSSTALK] There's a lot of different
code organization ways to handle things.
>> Brian Holt: Probably if it was my own
project what I would do is have an API
like, ./api and make a new file called,
api.js and then import from that and
just substantiate that API file that would
probably be a little bit more elegant
solution.
But that's just preference
on how you write JavaScript.
>> off screen male: Is there any reason
why you don't have a form element,
actual form tag?
>> off screen male: Typically like,
>> Brian Holt: I think the answer
to that question,
>> off screen male: [CROSSTALK] For
semantics or whatever, you would have it.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so it doesn't make,
I don't think it makes it any more
necessarily accessible
by having a formula.
In this case, we're not operating at the
form level, so I'm just, I don't need it,
so I don't put it in there.
But some people feel the need
to wrap everything in
a form,
>> Brian Holt: Now what you could
say that I'm not doing,
which people do expect.
If you hit enter on a form,
people expect that to submit the form.
And the easiest way to do that is
to wrap everything in a form and
say, you know, on submit and
then handle the submit event and
that will handle the people
hitting enter on your form.
Right now it won't do that so that
would be a compelling reason to do it.
I just haven't,
I think that answered the question.
>> Brian Holt: So in other words, it's no
different for React than it is for, say,
Angular, right, it's just,
I haven't done it, that's all.
>> off screen male: And
in that ES6 import on the top,
pf is just the default import and
then you have named exports.
>> Brian Holt: Right, so for example,
if I have React dom has it as well.
You can import React dom and
you can also import
render individually from react-dom.
>> Brian Holt: So,
this is an ES6 module thing.
You can import individual pieces of it,
or you can import the entire thing as one
giant pack or, in general that's
the semantics of it but in reality,
this is whatever the export default is,
right?
If you look down here at the bottom,
I say, export default SearchParams.
I could also say, Export const search
params equals search params, like this.
And now I have this name export,
>> Brian Holt: Or
some other name, [SOUND] right.
Now I have this name export,
now that I wanted to
import this in carousel,
I would come here and
say, import SomeOtherName
from ./SearchParams.
>> Brian Holt: So it's just how the module
system with ES6 works, again, not specific
to React, this is just in general
JavaScript modules that's how they work.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
what further is asking here if we go to,
maybe, let's do it on SearchParams.
Instead of doing what I have here,
correct me if I'm wrong but
I think what he's asking,
let's just handle, do this one.
>> Brian Holt: So this is normal,
just like without, hang on you have
to put event in there as well.
>> Brian Holt: HandleBreedChange and then
event here right, so this is not bound so
that this would break right now if
I tried to run this code as is.
>> Brian Holt: So what he's asking here,
he or she, is asking,
is what happens if I change, handle
breed change instead of having up there.
This technically works
if I say .find this and
.bind this right here and
I do it in line here.
Or the other way you can do it is,
something like this.
>> Brian Holt: Event.
>> Brian Holt: This would also work.
There's a couple kind of ways of finagling
this but far more I see this one,
the second one.
So let me tell you why this is a bad idea.
I would strongly recommend
against doing this.
In general I have to say this,
mostly performance optimizations,
you don't have to worry about.
But this one you actually do because
this right here dot bind this,
this gets called on every render function.
And dot bind is actually
a pretty heavy function.
If you run this 10,000 times,
you're gonna see slow down.
And if you start doing this everyone in
your codebase, you're gonna start seeing
junk because you are creating and
destroying a function every single time
you call render and that's just turn
through memory like no one's business.
So you're gonna see a lot
more garbage collection and
the slowest like whenever
you're scrolling and
garbage collection happens, it just
causes junk like a 100% of the time.
And you're going to triple or
quadruple or even more than that, 10X,
how much you do garbage collection
if you do stuff like this.
So don't, don't do that.
>> Brian Holt: Like I still see people
do this, and cuz it's easy, right?
It's easy to read, it's very readable.
But because before this was
impossible to do it this way,
this only was allowed to happen
maybe within the past year.
So before that,
you had to do the constructor.
Before that, we didn't have to it because
they used to bind everything for you and
they don't do that anymore.
>> Brian Holt: So we just did forms and
now we're moving onto context.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, in fact I know,
I think it was his or her name was Diego.
We're actually going to address
the question of how we share data amongst
multiple components.